# Automated_Traffic_Enforcer
Automated Traffic Enforcement works best when the driving public is given the perception that they can be checked for traffic violations anytime, anywhere. Moreover, the violator should be promptly notified of a violation. The punishment, which mostly includes the payment of a fine, needs to be paid quickly and is perceived as high enough to act as a strong deterrent. Equipment with a high detection rate is a key item at the start of the automated traffic enforcement chain. Identifying all passing vehicles is important since only then all potentially violating vehicles can be caught. If low percentage of vehicles and thus violators are detected, some violators will escape punishment for their road unsafe behavior. Feelings of injustice may arise (why am I caught, and not the other vehicles). This will affect the public support for automated traffic enforcement. Hardware with high detection rates is therefore required. After detection of violator’s vehicle (this needs to be done correctly with a legally pre-defined accuracy), detected vehicle’s details are sent for further processing. After a positive decision on a violation, the image/video and data for that violation need to be registered immediately in a correct, secure and unchangeable way. Violation evidence data are transferred to a secure data storage location to issue citations from the back office, but also for longer term storage. A ticket has been issued by the department against the violators and inform them by sending an email to their respective email ids. After sending out a citation by means of a letter it needs to be received by the owner of the violating vehicle. This sounds quite logical but governments need to arrange that ‘not receiving’ such notice or letter will not be an acceptable reason for ignoring the violation notice and thus for damaging this link of the enforcement chain. Violator will respond to the message according to the instruction that is written in the mail.
